Notes on how Ample/XAmple handle partial reduplication

H. Andrew Black
22 May 2020

GENERAL IDEA

We keep a list of the allomorphs containing a partial reduplicaiton
pattern and its set of SECs.

When processing a word (get_entries()), we look for matches based on
the patterns.  When there is a match, we set the SECs in the in-memory
allomorph to use the actual characters used in the pattern.  Then when
testing, we can use the normal SEC mechanism.  This is all in anal.c.

SPECIAL CASES

1. When a given partial reduplication allomorph matches at one point
in the parse and another form also matches and we pursue that other
form, it is possible that that same partial reduplication allomorph
will match later on in the word.  This second (or third, etc.) match
will change the SECs in the allomorph to be whatever the latest match
was.  So we keep a copy of the original environments before actually
pursuing any matches that pass.  When we come back from that path, we
reset the SECs to their original values.

2. More than one partial reduplication allomorph in an entry may match
at a given point.  When restoring potentially changed allomorphs, we
make sure that the original environments are for the same allomorph.
If we do not, we run the risk of having the wrong SEC set in the
allomorph.  As an example, in one case there were two allomorphs:
[C^1][V^1][C^2][V^2] and [V^1][C^1][V^2].  The preceding material was
"mase" so the first one matched (and used /m a s e_) and the second
one also matched (and used / a s e_).  When restoring the original
match, if we did not make sure we had the same allomorph, then if the
second was used to restore for the first, the resulting SEC was /m m a
s_ (because it had three instead of four items and the first one
remained what it was) and so it failed.

3. A given partial reduplication allomorph may match its environment
more than once.  For example, suppose the pattern is [C^1][V^1] and
that the C class includes t, r, and tr as members.  If the proceeding
material is "tra", say, then there will be two matches: "tra" and
"ra".  We must try both options because the t could be the last
segment in a preceding morpheme or it could be the beginning of this
partial reduplication.  (See the code involving
MAX_PARTIAL_REDUP_ALLOMOPRH_MATCHES.)

4. A user may have forgotten to include the SEC for a partial
reduplication allomorph.  We skip the restoring of the original
environment in this case (instead of crashing).
